.TH PRINCE 1 "October 2022"
.SH NAME
prince \- convert XML and HTML to PDF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prince
[options]
.I FILES...
[ -o
.I PDF
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Prince is a batch formatter for converting XML and HTML into PDF.
Prince has strong support for Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).
Prince prints
.I any
XML document without relying on proprietary markup. 
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display usage and options.
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fR"
Display version information.
.IP "\fB\-\-credits\fR"
Display credits and acknowledgements.
.SS LOGGING OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR"
Log informative messages.
.IP "\fB\-\-debug\fR"
Log debug messages.
.IP "\fB\-\-log\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Append log messages to a file.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-warn\-css\fR"
Do not warn about CSS (implies the following).
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-warn\-css\-unknown\fR"
Do not warn about unknown CSS features.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-warn\-css\-unsupported\fR"
Do not warn about unsupported CSS features.
.IP "\fB\-\-structured\-log\fR=\fITYPE\fR"
Enable structured logging on stderr.
[normal|quiet|progress|buffered]
.SS INPUT OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-input\fR=\fIINPUT\fR"
Set input format. [xml|html|auto]
.IP "\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-input\-list\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Read multiple input filenames from another file.
.IP "\fB\-\-baseurl\fR=\fIURL\fR"
Specify the base URL of the input document.
.IP "\fB\-\-remap\fR=\fIURL\fR=\fIDIR\fR"
Map a http(s) URL to a path so that network resources matching the
scheme, host, port and path prefix will be loaded from the given directory.
This option may be used multiple times.
.IP "\fB\-\-fileroot\fR=\fIDIR\fR"
Specify the root directory for absolute filenames.
Deprecated in favour of
.BR \-\-remap .
.IP "\fB\-\-iframes\fR"
Enable loading of HTML iframes.
.IP "\fB\-\-xinclude\fR"
Enable XInclude processing. Implies
.BR \-\-xml\-external\-entities .
.IP "\fB\-\-xml\-external\-entities\fR"
Enable loading of XML external entities (XXE) and external DTD subsets.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-local\-files\fR"
Disable access to local files.
.SS NETWORK OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-network\fR"
Disable network access (prevents HTTP downloads).
.IP "\fB\-\-auth\-user\fR=\fIUSER\fR, \fB\-\-auth\-password\fR=\fIPASS\fR"
Specify username and password for HTTP authentication.
.IP "\fB\-\-auth\-server\fR=\fIHOST\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]"
Send the
.BR \-\-auth\-user ,
.B \-\-auth\-password
credentials only to the given server.
The default is to send them to any server
which challenges for authentication.
.IP "\fB\-\-auth\-scheme\fR=[\fIhttp\fR|\fIhttps\fR]"
Send the
.BR \-\-auth\-user ,
.B \-\-auth\-password
credentials only for requests with the given scheme.
.IP "\fB\-\-auth\-method\fR=\fIbasic\fR,\fIdigest\fR,\fIntlm\fR,\fInegotiate\fR"
Specify a list of HTTP authentication methods to enable (default: basic).
.IP "\fB\-\-auth\fR=\fIURL\fR"
Specify a URL with credentials for HTTP authentication:
[\fISCHEME:\fR]//\fIUSER\fR:\fIPASS\fR@\fIHOST\fR[:\fIPORT\fR].
Unlike the preceding options,
\fB\-\-auth\fR may be used multiple times.
The username and password must be percent-encoded.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-auth\-preemptive\fR"
Do not send credentials to named servers until an
authentication challenge is received.
When multiple authentication methods are enabled,
an initial request may be required to discover the
methods supported by the remote site.
.IP "\fB\-\-http\-proxy\fR=\fIPROXY\fR"
Specify the HTTP proxy server.
.IP "\fB\-\-http\-timeout\fR=\fISEC\fR"
Specify the HTTP timeout in seconds (default: 60).
.IP "\fB\-\-cookie\fR=\fICOOKIE\fR"
Specify a cookie that may be sent when making HTTP requests.
The format is a Set-Cookie header field value, e.g.
\fB\-\-cookie "name=value; domain=example.com"\fR.
If you do not specify a domain for the cookie, it may not be sent.
The exact behaviour depends on the underlying libcurl version.
.IP "\fB\-\-cookie-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Specify a file containing HTTP cookies.
The cookies may be sent when making HTTP requests.
The format of the file should be plain HTTP headers (Set-Cookie style)
or the Netscape/Mozilla cookie file format.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-cacert\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Specify an SSL CA certificate file.
This option is not supported on Windows.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-capath\fR=\fIPATH\fR"
Specify an SSL CA certificate directory.
This option is not supported on Windows.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-cert\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Specify an SSL client certificate file.
Client authentication is not supported on Windows.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-cert-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR"
Specify the SSL client certificate file type (PEM, DER). The default is PEM.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-key\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Specify an SSL private key file.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-key\-type\fR=\fITYPE\fR"
Specify the SSL private key file type (PEM, DER). The default is PEM.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-key\-password\fR=\fIPASS\fR"
Specify passphrase for the private key.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-version\fR=\fIVERSION\fR"
Specify an SSL/TLS version to use (default, TLSv1, TLSv1.0, TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2,
TLSv1.3).
The default behaviour is to attempt to figure out the remote SSL protocol
version.
.IP "\fB\-\-insecure\fR"
Disable SSL verification (not recommended).
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-no\-revoke\fR"
Disable certificate revocation checks.
This option only has an effect on Windows.
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\-revoke\-best\-effort\fR"
Ignore certificate revocation checks that fail due to missing or offline
distribution points for the revocation check lists.
This option only has an effect on Windows.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-redirects\fR"
Do not follow HTTP/HTTPS redirects. The default behaviour is to follow
redirects.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-parallel\-downloads\fR"
Disable parallel downloads.
.SS JAVASCRIPT OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-javascript\fR"
Enable JavaScript in HTML documents.
.IP "\fB\-\-script\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Run an external script.
.IP "\fB\-\-max\-passes\fR=\fINUM\fR"
Specify a limit on the number of times that the document may be laid out.
By default, there is no limit.
The first pass always occurs. The second and subsequent passes will occur if a
JavaScript function registered with Prince.registerPostLayoutFunc modifies the
DOM.
.SS CSS OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-style\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Apply an external style sheet.
.IP "\fB\-\-media\fR=\fIMEDIA\fR"
Specify the media type (e.g. print, screen).
.IP "\fB\-\-page\-size\fR=\fISIZE\fR"
Specify the page size (e.g. A4).
.IP "\fB\-\-page\-margin\fR=\fIMARGIN\fR"
Specify the page margin (e.g. 20mm).
The syntax for \fIMARGIN\fR is as for the CSS `margin' property:
e.g.\ three space-separated lengths give
the top, side and bottom page margins respectively.
(However, see the
.B \-\-mirror\-margins
option.)
.IP "\fB\-\-mirror\-margins"
This option causes a four-term argument to
.B \-\-page\-margin
to be interpreted as
.I TOP OUTSIDE BOTTOM INSIDE.
Put another way, this option means that
.B \-\-page\-margin
specifies margins for right pages,
while left pages have margins that are the mirror image of that.
.IP
(The choice of the
.B \-\-page\-margin
argument applying to right rather than recto or left pages
means that the more visible outside margin comes first,
and is convenient for books where
the outside margin is to be either equal to the top margin
or between the sizes of the top and bottom margins.)
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-author\-style\fR"
Ignore author style sheets.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-default\-style\fR"
Ignore default style sheets.
.SS PDF OUTPUT OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Specify the output PDF filename.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-profile\fR=\fIPROFILE\fR"
Specify the PDF profile to use
(PDF/A-1a, PDF/A-1b,
PDF/A-2a, PDF/A-2b,
PDF/A-3a, PDF/A-3b,
PDF/UA-1,
PDF/A-1a+PDF/UA-1,
PDF/A-2a+PDF/UA-1,
PDF/A-3a+PDF/UA-1,
PDF/X-1a:2001,
PDF/X-1a:2003,
PDF/X-3:2002,
PDF/X-3:2003,
PDF/X-4).
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-output\-intent\fR=\fIICC\fR"
Specify the PDF/A or PDF/X output intent ICC profile.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-script\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Include an AcroJS script to run when the PDF is opened.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-event\-script\fR=\fIEVENT:FILE\fR"
Include an AcroJS script to run on a specific event
(will-close, will-save, did-save, will-print, did-print).
.IP "\fB\-\-attach\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Attach a file to the PDF.
.IP "\fB\-\-tagged\-pdf"
Produce tagged PDF.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-forms"
Enable generation of interactive form fields from HTML form control elements
by default.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-artificial\-fonts\fR"
Disable synthesis of missing bold/italic fonts.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-embed\-fonts\fR"
Disable font embedding in PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-subset\-fonts\fR"
Disable font subsetting in PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-force\-identity\-encoding\fR"
Use identity encoding for all fonts.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-compress\fR"
Disable compression of PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-no\-object\-streams\fR"
Disable use of PDF object streams.
.IP "\fB\-\-convert\-colors\fR
Convert colors to output intent color space.
.IP "\fB\-\-fallback\-cmyk\-profile=\fIICC\fR"
Set fallback ICC profile for uncalibrated CMYK.
The output intent color space takes precedence if it is CMYK.
.SS PDF METADATA OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-lang\fR=\fILANG\fR"
Specify the primary language as a RFC 3066-style language tag (e.g. en).
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-xmp\-metadata"
Include HTML metadata as XMP in the PDF.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-xmp\fR=\fIFILE\fR"
Include additional XMP metadata from a file in the PDF.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-title\fR=\fITITLE\fR"
Set PDF document title.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-subject\fR=\fISUBJECT\fR"
Set PDF document subject.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-author\fR=\fIAUTHOR\fR"
Set PDF document author.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-keywords\fR=\fIKEYWORDS\fR"
Set PDF document keywords.
.IP "\fB\-\-pdf\-creator\fR=\fICREATOR\fR"
Set PDF document creator.
.SS PDF ENCRYPTION OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-encrypt\fR"
Encrypt PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-key\-bits\fR=\fINUM\fR"
Set encryption key size [40|128].
.IP "\fB\-\-user\-password\fR=\fIPASS\fR"
Set PDF user password.
.IP "\fB\-\-owner\-password\fR=\fIPASS\fR"
Set PDF owner password.
.IP "\fB\-\-disallow\-print\fR"
Disallow printing of PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-disallow\-modify\fR"
Disallow modification of PDF output.
This includes document assembly unless used with \fB\-\-allow\-assembly\fR.
.IP "\fB\-\-disallow\-copy\fR"
Disallow copying from PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-disallow\-annotate\fR"
Disallow annotation of PDF output.
.IP "\fB\-\-allow\-copy\-for\-accessibility\fR"
Allow copying content for accessibility purposes
even when copying is disallowed by \fB\-\-disallow\-copy\fR.
.IP "\fB\-\-allow\-assembly\fR"
Allow document assembly even when other modifications are disallowed by
\fB\-\-disallow\-modify\fR.
.SS FAIL\-SAFE OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-safe\fR"
Set all of the following fail-safe options.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-invalid\-license\fR"
Fail if the license is invalid or inapplicable.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-dropped\-content\fR"
Fail if any content is dropped.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-missing\-resources\fR"
Fail if any resources cannot be loaded.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-missing\-glyphs\fR"
Fail if glyphs cannot be found for any characters.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-stripped\-transparency\fR"
Fail if any transparency is stripped.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-pdf\-profile\-error\fR"
Fail if there are problems complying with the specified PDF profile,
e.g. due to incompatible options.
.IP "\fB\-\-fail\-pdf\-tag\-error\fR"
Fail if there are problems tagging the PDF document for accessibility.
.SS RASTER OUTPUT OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-output\fR=\fITEMPLATE\fR"
Enable raster output, and rasterise each selected page to an image file named
according to the template. These field specifications are allowed within
\fITEMPLATE\fR:
.IP
\fB%d\fR is replaced by the page number
.IP
\fB%0\fINUM\fBd\fR is replaced by the page number, padded with leading zeroes
so that the field is at least \fINUM\fR characters long
.IP
\fB%\fINUM\fBd\fR is replaced by the page number, padded with leading spaces
so that the field is at least \fINUM\fR characters long
(\fINUM\fR must begin with a non-zero digit)
.IP
\fB%%\fR is replaced by a single percent sign.
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-format\fR=\fIauto\fR|\fIpng\fR|\fIjpeg\fR"
Set raster output format.
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-jpeg\-quality\fR=\fINUM\fR"
Set quality when writing raster output to JPEG format.
The value ranges from 0 to 100 (default: 92).
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-pages\fR=\fIall\fR|\fIfirst\fR|\fINUM\fR"
Set range of pages to rasterise (default: all).
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-dpi\fR=\fIDPI\fR"
Set resolution of raster output.
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-background\fR=\fIwhite\fR|\fItransparent\fR"
Set background color of raster output (default: white).
.IP "\fB\-\-raster\-threads\fR=\fINUM\fR"
Set number of threads to use for producing raster output.
.SS UTILITY OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-\-scanfonts \fIFILES...\fR"
Scan font files and create a CSS file.
.IP "\fB\-\-control\fR"
Communicate via the control interface.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2021 YesLogic Pty. Ltd.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
For more information, see https://www.princexml.com
