---
id: 2.2-configure-workspace
title: "2.2 Configure Workspace"
hide_table_of_contents: true
draft: false
---

## Overview

In this section, learn how to adjust the automatically created Workspace configuration. This helps you adapt the experience of an application to the way your users work boosting productivity and user satisfaction with your solution.

## Instructions

1.	First, let’s review what was automatically created for us by App Engine Studio. From the App Home tab of your Logistics application, click the Preview link by your newly created Logistics Experience.

This will open a new browser window or tab loading your newly created experience. Here we see the actionable information featured by the default template, including tasks and work assigned to the current user.

Now, let’s look at the lists created
for us.
 
 


2.	Click the Lists tab on the left side of the Workspace.


This will open the default lists created by the App Engine Studio template.

Here we see the listing of the items we selected during the workspace configuration – Shipments and Requested Items.

Notice, Requested Items is listed above Shipments.  That could be confusing for our users, but not to worry, we can easily adjust that in this exercise.

Next, click the All list under Shipments.


As you would expect, there is no data yet in our table, but what you might also notice is SysID is being displayed and the columns aren’t in the optimal order.  We will also want to adjust this when we configure the workspace.

Let’s close the preview by closing this browser tab or window and returning to App Engine Studio.

3.	From the Logistics App Home tab, click the ellipsis next to the preview link under the Experience section and select the Edit option.

This will launch the UI Builder in a new tab.

From the UI Builder, we can change any element of the interface to optimize   the user experience.
 


 

Here, we can see that there are a variety of changes we could make to the Workspace Homepage, including adding reports, dashboards, widgets, lists, or other content and controls.

For now, we will focus on updating the elements of the list view previously identified.

4.	Change the selected Page from Home to List by clicking the drop- down list at the top left and selecting List.















5.	This loads the list page configuration in the center content frame. Let’s start by fixing the order of the displayed list groups. To do this, click the Nav Frame element in the center of the workspace.

6.	In the right frame, we now see the Config properties of the List nav. To adjust the order, we’ll need to change the list configuration. Click the Configuration link under the Config panel tab on the bottom right of your screen.

This will open a new browser tab with the menu items for the Logistics Application.

7.	Open the menu configuration by clicking the record Logistics_menu_config.

This will open the configuration record for the Logistics navigation menu.
 
Important Note:
While this lab does not cover working with all the elements of UI Builder, we recommend returning later to test various configuration options and settings to familiarize yourself with the powerful tools available.
 

8.	On the configuration record under the UX List Categories tab at the bottom of the record, double click the Order field and change the value from 100 to1 for the Shipments record.

9.	Then click the green check mark to save your changes.

This will update the display order of the lists in your Workplace experience.

10.	Now, let’s update the list configuration for Shipments to make it easier for our users to view shipment information. From the same configuration record, click the UX Lists tab.

This displays a listing of all the configured lists linked to our workspace.

From here, we can see the All list for the category shipments showing only one displayed column (number).

Let’s add some additional columns now.


11.	Click the record All linked to the Shipments category.

This shows the list configuration. Let’s add
some columns to make the list more useful.


12.	Click the lock icon next to the Columns
data field.


This opens the column selector. Add the columns Number; Carrier; Status; Recipient; Destination; Deliver Date; and Tracking Number by selecting the value on the left column, then clicking the right arrow to move it to the selected column.
 


13.	Now, let’s save this and create a similar view of filtered data. Right-click on the grey header bar at the top of the window and click Save. (If you accidently click the Update button, simply reopen the record by clicking All again.

14.	Next, we’ll copy this record to a new record we can use to create a filtered view. Again, right-click on the grey header bar, but select Insert and Stay to create a new clone of the list configuration record.

Now that we have our record copy, let make some changes to create a new list view.

15.	Update the Title field value from All to Not Delivered


16.	Next, let’s filter the results so only undelivered items are shown. Under Conditions select the choose field drop down and select Status.

17.	Set the Operator drop-down to is one of.


18.	From the option selector, click New, and In Transit.


19.	Finally, click the Update button to save our new list configuration.

## Exercise Recap

We have completed our configuration changes. 