---
id: 2.3-test-workspace
title: "2.3 Test Workspace"
hide_table_of_contents: true
draft: false
---

## Overview

In this section, we will review our configuration changes and test our newly created Logistics application.

## Instructions


1.	Close the configuration record browser tab and return to our UI Builder window. Next, close the UI Builder tab to return to our Logistics App Home tab.

2.	Click the Preview link next to your Logistics Workspace Experience.

Now, when we click the lists tab on the left side of our workspace, we should see our newly made configuration changes.
 

 

We can see Shipments is now the first list, and the new filtered list for Not Delivered is displayed. Additionally, the columns we selected for our list view are displayed.

Let’s create some data to test out our work!

3.	Click the New button to create a new shipment record.
The Create New Shipments form is displayed.

4.	Enter the Recipient as Roger Seid

5.	Enter the Destination as 261 North Highway 101, Solana Beach, CA

6.	Enter the Tracking Number as 122816215025810

7.	Set the Carrier to FedEx

8.	Set the Status as New

9.	Click Save
 

10.	Close the record tab to return to your list view. You should now see your new record in the Shipments list.

The same record will also be available on the Not Delivered list. Try creating a new record with a status of Delivered to confirm that it does not appear on this filtered Not Delivered list.


## Recap


Congratulations, you have built a custom experience for your Logistics Team. They are now able to create and track digital records to manage the end-to-end Shipment Lifecycle.
