---
id: 3.2-test-the-flow
title: "3.2 Test the Flow"
hide_table_of_contents: true
draft: false
---

## Overview

In this section, we will test the flow we just created and make sure it functions as expected.

## Instruction1.	Start by clicking the Test button at the top of the screen.

2.	The Test Flow dialog popup will appear. Click Run Test.

Since the flow has no input parameters, it will run
 
Important Note:
For purposes of the lab, the Carrier spokes featured leverage simulated transactions. This allows us to build the process flow without requiring a live connection account with each carrier. In a live environment, these could easily be replaced by your Now Platform team with spokes leveraging live API credentials.
 

immediately. If we had specified a flow trigger based on a record criterion, we would have been prompted to provide a context for the flow test.

When the test completes, you will see a message on the test window.

3.	Click the message link to drill into the detailed results of the test execution.

From the Executions tab, we can see each step in the process that was executed.  At the top, we can see the overall result of the Test Run with a Completed Green to indicate the flow completed successfully.

The For Each step shows a record indicator to show each individual record that was processed in the test. Since we only had one record that met the criteria we provided, there is only one record in the collection. Had there been more, we’d be able to page through each record to review the results.

4.	We can see the FedEx condition evaluated true for the test record in our system, which triggered the execution of that branch of the workflow. The UPS and DHL conditions evaluated false, so those sections of the workflow were skipped.

Expand the results of the FedEx Track Shipment action by clicking on the step. Here we can see the result that was returned from the FedEx API call (your results may differ) including the status and expected delivery time.
We can also see these values were used to update the shipment record in the next Update Record step. You may want to go back and create
additional test records to see the workflow operate on a larger data sample size.

## Exercise Recap

Congratulations! Your process is now fully automated! Now users can see near real-time status updates of their shipments which provides a substantially enhanced experience for users allowing them to make better business decisions.