---
id: 4.1-create-mobile
title: "4.1 Create Mobile"
hide_table_of_contents: true
draft: false
---

## Overview

In this section, we will create a basic Mobile Experience for our new Logistics application.

## Instructions

1.	Navigate to Creator Workflows > Lab Page and click the Open App Engine Studio button. Once there, open your Logistics application by clicking it on from the list of applications.


2.	Click the + link next to the Experience section of the App Home tab


3.	Select Mobile experience


4.	Click Begin


5.	This will launch the Mobile App Builder. It  allows you to create dynamic mobile experiences for your users. Click Get started. 


6.	ServiceNow has two mobile apps. One from the fulfiller perspective, Mobile Agent, and one from the end user perspective, Now Mobile. 


For today’s lab, we will just build out one mobile app from the fulfiller’s perspective. Select the Mobile Agent. Click Continue.


7.	Name the app Logistics and choose an icon of your choice. At this time, we will not be adding any roles. This can be updated later as the app matures and a security model is identified. Click Continue.


8.	Each experience contains screens that feature either a list or a mobile web page. Select the List screen. It will show a list of information from an existing table. Click Continue. 


9.	Select the Shipments table to show as a list on your screen. Since we don’t need to actively view and interact with shipments that have been delivered, filter the view  by adding the condition Status is one of New; In Transit. 


10.	Label your screen, Active Shipments, so your users can easily identify the appropriate records. As you continue inputting data, you can see a preview of the mobile configuration on the right side of the screen. Click Continue. 


From here, you can add more screens or click Done adding screens.


11.	Now you can either continue editing the Mobile App in Mobile App Builder or simply click Done. 


## Exercise Recap